## Why create a nodeJS server 

to render a HTML page, we need a web server. Even when we use live server extension of VS code, VS code is creating a web server for us. 

Therefore, to render any webpage, we need to create a nodeJS server first and then render our web page on it 

## How to create a web server 

1. Open project folder in VS code

2. Goto terminal and initiate node : **npm init**

3. This will ask a few questions and then create a package.json 

4. Install express dependency as : **npm i express**

5. Make a new folder src in the root

6. Make new **server.js** and **index.html** inside **src** 

7. In the server.js, initialise with following code :

const express=require("express");
const path=require("path");
const server=express();
const port=process.env.PORT||3000;

//... middleware and routes (get, post etc.)

server.listen(port,()=> {
	console.log(`Server running at ${port}`);
});


8. Make public folder in root (parallel to src) and create script.js and styles.css in this folder.Also, link these two files in index.html


9. We will empower our nodeJS server to render static files using : 

server.use(express.static(__dirname));
server.use(express.static(__dirname + '/public'));


10. Now, nodeJS web server is not configured to render JS and CSS files on HTTP request. So, we need to use a middleware to render JS and CSS files as well with index.html 

### Although we can avoid this step if we add script and style part of HTML in header and body tag but it is a good practice to keep different parts of code separate 

**So, add following middleware to render JS and CSS files**

server.use((req, res, next) => {
  const ext = req.url.split('.').pop();
  if (ext === 'css') {
    res.set('Content-Type', 'text/css');
  } else if (ext === 'js') {
    res.set('Content-Type', 'application/javascript');
  }
  next();
});


11. Now go back to root directory and install nodemon : npm install nodemon

12. Goto package.json and inside the scripts object, write following : 
	
    "scripts": {
    "dev": "nodemon src/app.js -e js, hbs",
  },


13. Now, we can now run the server using : npm run dev


14. Then based on our design, we can create different routes for different htmls to be rendered to them on GET request

### It is important to note that we only use GET method in these dapps which are front end only. The GET method will only render the HTML pages (along with any JS or CSS) and the server is not used to store or retrieve data from blockchain database 

**We use the server.get method as : 

app.get("/",(req,res)=> {
    res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname+"/index.html"))
})

### This way suppose my design has 4 pages on 4 different routes, then I will use 4 server.get methods for each route and render the 4 htmls there respectively 

### This method we use after middleware and before server.listen()